The Joe Rogan.
Experience. The reason that I'm fighting through culture, war issues,
which are not very interesting to me is that we are destroying the thing that
has the ability to make sense of the world. Right?
It's really the design and logic. What do you mean?
Like the ability to say no, you know, you come with an experiment that failed,
you know, and you say, I think it succeeded and I say, no, it didn't, it failed.
And you say, well, I actually am, um, Cambodian,
and I think you're discriminating against me because I'm Cambodian like, look,
your experiment failed. It has nothing to do with Cambodia.
And you keep that stuff out of my lap. I mean,
if you watch your war stuff. Yeah.
Really what I'm animated by is get your social
engineering out of my laboratory.
You've got 10 minutes and I'm calling security. That's my issue.
It's not telling people how to behave or that I have all the
answers or that we need to be objective in our lives.
And that we just want to have sensible discussions. It's,
you're coming after core reality and our ability to make sense of the world.
And so I'm happy to entertain all sorts of things. You take one foot,
step one foot in my lab and I'm calling security. And if I can't do that,
if I can't maintain a scientific journal or a university in which the
departments do not invade the departments that are actually doing a super
important work, we're lost.
And there is a distinction this distinction needs to be made. There,
there is a distinction between hard science and gender studies.
You could pull up, pull up Jamie, um,
let's do the, uh, uh, anomalous magnetic moment of the electron.
Oh, you can do that. Yeah. You went all Sean Connery on me.
Yeah. One eyebrow. Isn't that like a genetic thing?
Like you can curl your tongue. Like yeah, I can do that.
Some people can't do that. A parameter turnover.
You mean turn it upside down. Oh, no, I can't do that. All right.
You've got one thing. I got another. Okay. Uh, this is a very mature Joe. Huh?
Um.
Well, what is going on here? Um.
Put a SIG where I'm looking for a number with like 10 or 11
significant digits. Um,
w we are able to do calculations in quantum electrodynamics,
let's say quantum field theory in which we can figure out the
precision of some thing.
We can predict it to like 10 or 11 decimal,
places of accuracy. And when I look at the,
the achievement that was necessary to have theory agree with experiment to that
level.
And then I listened to some of the discussions about, oh,
just take these hoaxes about, you know, uh,
somebody who submitted parts of mine comp to, uh, you know,
as with Jews re written, as men, Peter looked feminine.
Right?
Those two subjects are taking place in the same institution.
One is incredibly rigorous and demanding and completely unforgiving.
And the other thing is just like.
Frivolous and nonsense. Well.
Maybe there's a core of it that makes sense, but there's,
it's not going to get anywhere close to the achievements of the,
of the hard sciences.
But the, the core of it, whether or not it makes sense.
The real problem is the motivation for doing it in the first place.
The real motivation may be activism,
but Activision, activism and scholarship. Aren't. I mean,
there's so many things that I want to be true.
That just aren't I want beautiful. I mean, like, you know,
nature, you spend time in nature. You want to think, you know,
like nature is a community and where the forest is a bunch of different
organisms, all working together. No it's red of tooth and claw.
Everything that you think about the universe that is purely beautiful and
aspirational is contradicted by some system in nature.
And that's why evolutionary theory was the first thing on the chopping block.
It's just like, well,
this contradicts everything we want to claim about organisms. Well, tough luck.
I feel like there's a way to define this clearly that makes people understand it
better. Okay. And I don't, I don't know if I'm the guy to do it,
but I feel like someone that there's a,
this is an incredibly complex issue, right?
Where you're dealing with emotions and feelings and people who
feel like there's unjustice in the world and inequality.
And they focus on those things to the point where they're almost participating
in social engineering,
by ignoring reality and focusing on what they want to be
true and sort of this way of re-imagining the world.
And they're also demanding compliance.
This is a big part of this whole thing that's going on here.
Then on the other hand, you've got this stuff,
you've got these hard sciences that demand just rigorous,
rigorous intellectual debate.
They demand careful study of the facts. They demand
deep understanding of complex mathematics in order to achieve these results and
to be able to verify them, they're unforgiving, unforgiving. They're,
there's just, they're two totally different things.
And what you're saying is when one of them that is this sort of
fervor, frivolous,
airy kind of utopian version
of what they like the future to be.
And that interferes right where they want a certain amount of diverse
people on the staff.
I am not even saying that it's frivolous.
I'm not even saying it's not scholarship. I'm saying that whatever it is,
I don't care. Maybe, maybe it's, maybe it's some beautiful social thing.
Well do you do,
but then they'll hit you with you don't care because you're a white male and you
have white male privilege.
And I don't. And what I realized is, is that as important as inclusion is,
exclusion is equally important.
And the instant you say that I don't know you the time of.
Day. What does that mean by exclusivity? Important?
We keep talking about diversity and inclusion, diversity inclusion,
diversity inclusion, and there's an implicit threat in that,
which is what makes it really juicy and interesting, which is like, well,
let's look at us. We got three white guys in here. There's Jamie, you and me.
It's like.
Yourself, I'm 1.6% African. I recognize that. I knew that.
I knew he was going to play that card, but you sir can pass as white, right?
Yes. Okay. Now,
in order to have the objection, like there's some little bit of guilt,
which is like, well,
why aren't there any people from Cambodia in here is it that we were really anti
Cambodian? Um, if you carry that guilt,
you're always worried that you have to be able to prove that you're inclusive.
It doesn't matter. Right. Right. Okay.
It is also important to exclude certain voices from the conversation.
So the voice that plays the card, which says, well,
you're only saying that because X I don't have to listen to that voice.
And I think this is really important.
That is not a voice that needs to be answered.
It's not a voice that, um,
needs to be taken seriously or paid attention to,
unless there's some serious allegation that there has been some kind of
discrimination or inclusion,
the burden of proof is on you for saying why that's interesting in a particular
conversation.
The burden is on you to explain why that's interesting. Right?
Well, for them, they're trying to engineer a more fair and balanced society.
If I was going to take their perspective,
they would say that the reason why there aren't more women in science or trans
people in science, or, you know, filling out more.
Also trying to engineer a world where there were more women in science,
how are you doing.
That by.
Trying to figure out what is it that selecting against women, for example,
that we need to get women more money. As I said,
on this program earlier in their lives,
so they can hire help to help raise their children so they can spend more time
on their careers and balance. Um.
Yeah. But a lot of women don't find that attractive. They don't want to do that.
Maybe, but I'm trying to think.
But my point is is that there are lots of reasons that men and women are
different, right? Yeah. So for example, um,
I saw a beautiful video of a guy who jumps down at enormous flight of
stairs on a skateboard, and he just nailed the landing. And it's just a,
it's a thing of art.
And then it shows you 150 attempts where this guy
just abused his body and failed and failed,
maybe broke a tooth, you know, blood everywhere. And you're thinking, oh,
you showed me the success.
And you didn't show me that this guy was willing to put his brain,
his life on the line in order to nail that trick.
And he's actually one of the world's falling champions. Right. Okay. Well,
when you start saying, well, why are you putting this video of this person?
Who's doing this thing, you know, on the internet,
because that person belongs to a privileged class. I'm saying, well,
I don't know that guy abused himself and put himself at risk and, you know,
devoted his life in a singular way that no sensible PR I mean, I would be,
I would be appalled if my son did that. I'd be furious with it. You know,
there are things that are, that are happening that result in imbalances,
that aren't about some kind of unfairness.
And I think it's very important to say that unfairness is real and structural
problems are real and non structural problems and
things that really aren't unfair are also real.
I think we both agree that it's important for people to have the opportunity to
pursue what they enjoy pursuing.
I think there's also an issue where we want people to
be more represented. We want more of that,
that kind of person that's interested in something when they might not
necessarily naturally gravitate towards it.
And it might not be that there's some impediments and that there's some
boundaries and some, some sort of a boys club that keeps them out.
And it might be more that they're just not that interested in that well,
that there also is a biologically been, that's been proven in studies.
But I'm trying to make it a different point. Right. Okay. To me,
what I'm trying to say is I made a mistake years ago.
I think of engaging in answering this point, which is,
you know, let's, let's, let's take piano competitions.
Why are piano competitions historically, uh, disproportionately, you know,
uh, let's say entered in one by Russians or chess, or who knows what,
what Russians are beasts in the way that they destroy children on their way to
the concert stage,
they will do things that most American families will not do to produce a concert
pianist. Okay. That's not an unfairness for the rest of us. I mean,
I play the piano.
I can't get on stage with these guys because they're just amazing. It's not,
it's not an unfairness that right. I'm not represented on that stage.
Um, you know, if I told you that, um,
my intention is to become the world's greatest, uh,
jujitsu expert at age 53,
being overweight and not having any history in combat sports, you know,
and I know that it's not going to happen.
With the right amount of drugs. Come on,
Joe and engineering, we can do miraculous things. That's true.
We can make him better than he was. Yeah. We need 'em daily stem cells.
We're gonna, we're going to have to do some real X.
We're going to take a chance on cancer and all sorts of other diseases. Uh,
we can, we can achieve some things. Okay. But.
The previous conversation that we were.
That you need to develop, you need to develop it.
It needs to be a part of your well,
here's the thing that I always say about a striking sports striking sports are
probably one of the more interesting ones in that.
When you start out at an early age,
your body develops learning how to strike, right?
It's a gigantic advantage over someone who learns once they're they're
past puberty.
When you get someone who's learning how to strike and they're in their twenties,
it takes a real outlier to become super successful. It's very,
very rare.
I remember being in a fistfight and throwing a punch and not connecting
and hurting my arm. I was like.
Oh.
I didn't understand if it's not free. You know, it's like a very, it's a very,
now all you've got is your left arm and you got a really off person across from
you.